## Staff Support Engineer, Support Organization

This role operates as an amalgam of Support and Engineering responsibilities as they pertain to the technical success of our customers and daily Support operations.

A Staff Support Engineer would still be customer facing, and involved in ticket work, but in strategic ("parachuted in") capacity rather than as a primary responsibility. The value generated by this role is instead in ensuring that from a technical perspective the Support organization(s) are equipped with the tools, process, and internal engagement they need to best serve our customers. In the cases of exceptional customers or extenuating circumstances, a Staff Support Engineer may also have part of their time dedicated to working directly with a key strategic customer in a technical capacity.
### Role Overview
#### Leadership competencies

Continually works with others across the organization to help team members grow their understanding of their team’s domain and technology.
Routinely creates troubleshooting guides, feature deep-dive vignettes (video or text), and reference material for both internal and customer usage.
Exhibits a deep understanding of GitHub products, how customers use them, and how they fit into the larger business.
Identifies opportunities, and provides recommendations around, process and offering improvements.
Demonstrates excellent time management skills, able to deliver on multiple projects/threads of work reliably on schedule.
Demonstrates excellent communication skills, both written and verbal. Able to influence others, and product direction, without needing direct oversight or authority to do so.
Anticipates and plans for future issues that will impact Support.
Reaches beyond immediate needs, independently considering the longer-term, and is always looking beyond for ways to have a broad impact.
#### Technical competencies

Is recognized as a technical leader, showing deep expertise in operating and troubleshooting GitHub products.
Blends technical, product and design strategy, helping the team to be more productive while interfacing with other areas of the organization.
Addresses cross-team challenges related to customers, quality, and security.
Takes on cross-team complex requirements and decomposes them into a proposal of small deliverables.
Able, and expected, to assist in troubleshooting by means of source code review and product specific knowledge of GitHub products.
Able, and expected, to help resolve technical issues via frequent contributions to the GitHub code base.
Actively collaborates with Support, Supportability, and EPD teams within GitHub to create/improve existing Support tooling.
#### Responsibilities

Liaise with EPD groups for strategic product direction/implementation discussions and/or customer projects.
Pair with support engineers on engineering projects (e.g. “health check” tooling, troubleshooting tools, etc...).
Work closely with Escalations/Incident Management to identify trends in product deficiencies and work toward long-term technical resolution.
Regularly contribute to Support, SRE, and EPD code bases in the form of bug fixes, feature additions, and documentation.
Consult on, and occasionally own/drive Support tickets that have escalated and/or are considered especially critical for business reasons.
Engage with Escalations/Incident Management to assist on major escalations across GitHub.
#### Impact & key deliverables

Given the seniority of this role (L10), the scope of positive business impact and alignment with overall strategy is key. To that end, this role would be focused on the following outcomes/deliverables:

Ongoing cadence with EPD and Supportability around product issues & translation back to customer impact/product evolution
We have an ongoing challenge with the “game of telephone” that takes place in our feedback loop as all information regarding customer issues is (at best) second-hand, and rarely from customer-facing folks. We need the ability to bridge this gap, and that’s best delivered by someone with a foot in both worlds.
This would also include an ongoing rollup of “squad captain” feedback, given their tactical view of customer issues
Deep dive on technical issues/common escalations & ongoing collaboration with SEE/SIC teams during incidents & postmortems
Support and EPD have historically been excellent about helping to resolve customer issues, however delivery of actionable postmortems the action coming out of them has been a common stumbling block. A Staff Support Engineer would actively work with SEE/SIC and EPD teams to scope, execute, and report on actionable items coming out of customer incidents.
Tactical bug fixes/collab with SE/CRE/SEEs on mitigation/resolution
Similar to above, we often have recurring issues that could be categorized as “low frequency/high impact” and are reasonably simple for us to review, but are not prioritized. As part of a Staff Support Engineer’s technical purview, they would be tasked with triage and resolution of these types of bugs from a tactical perspective rather than relying on “papercuts” initiatives or eventual resolution via EPD prioritization.
“Parachute-in" support for major escalations and/or wide-spread engineering engagements (e.g. Cruise/Stripe/Zoox/AirBnB)
Support has excellent oversight of customers that share similar issues, however resources and remit do not currently exist to stitch scenarios together and look for broad trends across customer escalations. Historically this has led to chronic pain for customers, leading to more significant escalations down the road. A Staff Support Engineer would work closely with the SEE/SIC teams to both review the scenarios/resolutions encountered, but look for deeper trends and again work with Supportability and EPD to scope and execute on tactical changes.
